youtube seo three steps to rank number
one on youtube i will teach you how to
rank number one on youtube in three
steps and who doesn't want to rank on
youtube it's the second largest search
engine in the world right after google
and nearly 2.3 billion people access
youtube once a month funny enough google
also owns youtube so technically they
own the first and second most popular
search engine that means if you're able
to rank a video on youtube for keywords
that people care about it'll be seen by
thousands of people and it'll also rank
well on google over time all that sounds
great but youtube is becoming more and
more competitive thousands of creators
in every niche are competing for
attention and a lot of them are probably
targeting the same audience as you
but the good news is that youtube is
nowhere near as competitive as google
and even if you're just starting you can
rank videos on youtube
back in 2017 when i started my youtube
channel things were tough i've always
been great at writing content but it's
an entirely different game when it comes
to video
i also knew how to do seo and get
millions of visitors to my website but
all that knowledge was hard to use on
youtube and it didn't translate directly
so in other words what worked for google
didn't really work for youtube
some of it sure did overlap but it was a
different algorithm so i decided to
crack the code and understand youtube's
algorithm and share it with you and in
order to do that i had to create lots of
content and i mean lots of content i
started pushing out videos every single
day when i started my youtube channel i
was doing at least one video a day i
wanted to learn a few things so i needed
data on what worked and what did it a
lot of what i learned back then no
longer applies to youtube in this day
and age but i found out there are three
steps that you need to take in order to
rank on youtube that worked back then
and still work today and they're super
effective
the first thing that you need to do is
come up with great topics for your
videos how i found this out i used to
focus on keywords but it's not much
about the keywords you need to figure
out what are the broader topics that
people care about in your audience but
in order to do that you need to explore
many different topics and see which one
your resonates the most with your
audience in my case i focus on marketing
so there are quite a few things that i
could be approaching paid ads social
media seo conversion rate optimization
and the list goes on and on i had to
spend quite a bit of time publishing
videos on lots of different marketing
topics until i was able to find the main
areas that people in my audience were
interested in once you've found those
main topics you need to come up with
more unique angles to approach keyword
themes inside that topic here's an
example if you want to talk about
facebook ads you don't want to just
create a video called facebook ads i've
done videos like facebook ads versus
google ads and i got lots of engagement
from that so it's not about putting out
a video just on facebook ads it's
finding angles that
in that topic that people are interested
in watching about because a lot of
people like yeah facebook ads or google
apps which one's better well i'm gonna
break down both and here's how you can
map out some initial topics
use uber suggests keyword ideas report
right go to uber says type in a keyword
it'll give you all the other keywords
that are proper that people are
wondering about you can also use google
search operators you can also use the
colon command
sitecolonquora.com plus you know the
keyword or
sitecolonreddit.com plus the keyword now
you can also check out a tool called
answer the public that's a great tool to
get you the data as well what people are
really interested now i just want to
emphasize that the video title is very
important it needs to be catchy give the
reason for viewers to click and watch
the rest of the video
your topics need to be articulated in a
way that's attractive in your titles the
second step is coming up with a good
thumbnail thumbnails will dictate how
attractive your video is and if people
want to click through and watch your
content alongside your title this is
where you need to spend time and energy
to try to come up with something that's
compelling for viewers don't create
thumbnails that are just still like this
if you do that who's going to want to
click i wouldn't click heck i wouldn't
click on myself if i was like that in my
own thumbnail that's what you got to
have crazy emotions like
and you'll see that in my thumbnails and
that drives clicks here are some tips
over time that work for me give a
glimpse of what's going to happen in
your thumbnail if your video is about
increasing traffic maybe show the
snapshot of your google analytics in
your thumbnail if your video is
improving conversions show a before and
after snapshot of your conversion rates
before and after applying the tips use
photos of yourself reacting like i just
showed you earlier if the video has
something alarmed to it use a photo of
yourself that's worth like
i'm not the best actor but you get the
point if the video is good news show
footage of yourself reacting positively
like ah
you get the point you just need to be
congruent with the core message of your
video
and also consider using contrasting
colors avoid using red because that's
the color of youtube brand identity use
colors that draw attention and make your
video stand up when people see it in the
middle of other suggestions on youtube
search results now for the third step
it's all about doing seo optimization
you want to optimize your title using
the focus keyword that you're targeting
optimize your video descriptions with
those keywords include the primary and
secondary keywords that you're getting
from tools like ubersuggest that you'd
also like to rank for in the first
paragraph of the description and pin a
comment with engaging question so that
way it creates more virality from your
video because the comments really help
drive views for youtube and as something
that would be relevant to your audience
and relevant to your videos content this
will invite people to leave more
comments within your video for example
have you tried out any of these three
tips within your own youtube videos if
you have leave a comment below and tell
me how it's worked if you haven't let me
know and try one of these tips and i'll
help you through it
look the big takeaway is there's a lot
of youtube advice out there that is
quite technical and hard to understand
but this stuff that i just broke down to
you is easy and it works it's the
fundamentals use it you'll like the
results